# CYBERSECURITY BASIC TASK WRITE-UP

## By Hiba Fathima - 106125040 - CSE B

When I approached this assignment, my goal wasn't just to write code that worked, but to understand **why** behind whatever I wrote. I am a beginner to cybersecurity but it is one domain I have always wanted to explore.

I used AI for this task, but as my tutor. Since I am new to this domain I didn't know where to start or how to approach it in the beginning... so I took help from AI to assist me along the way. But I made sure and I am satisfied that I understood each and every line of code I wrote.

Thanks to this task, now I know at least something about cybersecurity. And I am excited that I found an interest in this domain. I am curious about this domain and I really wanna learn more.

Thank you Spider Team for this task and great learning journey!!!!!!

## Commands to try the project

### Part 1

Bash

- cd Cybersec_Domain_Task/Part_1
- make clean
- make CC=afl-clang-fast
- afl-fuzz -v
- afl-fuzz -i inputs/ -o findings_part1/ -- ./xarinfo

### Part 2

compiles with AddressSanitizer, and test a manual input pipe to make sure the binary doesn't immediately crash.

Bash

- cd ../part_2
- afl-clang-fast -fsanitize=address -g afl_harness.c license.c -o fuzzer
  (Verify that this creates the executable named fuzzer without throwing syntax or linking errors).

Before launching the fuzzer loop, test how your binary handles a sample seed input natively. Your folder uses a directory named corpus for seeds:

manual pipe test-

- ./fuzzer corpus/seed01.bin
  That [ERROR] Signature verification failed. is actually exactly what you want to see

It proves your harness code is executing perfectly. It read the binary data from seed01.bin

- afl-fuzz -i corpus/ -o findings/ -- ./fuzzer @@
  the automated engine for Part 2 using the @@

### Part 3

Bash

- cd ../Part_3

compilation command:

- afl-clang-fast -fsanitize=address -g json-c/harness.c json-c/build/libjson-c.a -I json-c/ -I json-c/build/ -o ./fuzzer_part3

let's execute the manual verification test to check how your harness processes inputs:

- ./fuzzer_part3 < inputs/seed1.json

to start the automated fuzzer engine for Part 3:

- afl-fuzz -i inputs/ -o findings_part3/ -- ./fuzzer_part3

the live, red-and-white AFL++ status dashboard opens up and starts ticking

to check findingsexit

- ls -la findings_part3/default/

### Stop the Fuzzer

Once the dashboard shows up and runs for a few seconds, press Ctrl + C in your terminal to close it down.

### individual writeups are in the corresponding folders

